Meeting 2020-01-21

Participants: Dan, Dimitris, Malin, Jonas, Arthur, Patrick

Project is about making a frontend visualiser over a dataset of immune cell
abundance per cancer/tumour types. Abundance is defined as number of cells per
area and obtained from images.  Images are not included in the database. The
rows of the database are the patients (including data averaged over several
images per patient) and columns include cell abundances, cancer type and
other features such as survival, age, gender and cancer stage.

Arthur shows a mockup with the immune cells depicted in a sidebar to the left
and the body parts with the cancer types in the central area. The idea is that
you either focus on one cell type or one cancer type (to start with). Say we
pick a cell type. Then we show graphs for each cancer type how abundant this
cell type is. Picking additional cell types shows abundance for all of them
in the same graph.

We learned that each cell type is described twice, one for locations in
tumours and one for locations in the stroma (terminology not normative).

They have a kind of survival plot they call forest graph that can also be shown
per cell type. This differ from my preconception of what a survival plot is.
These were referred to as Kaplan Meir graph. To make the Kaplan Meir survival plots
interesting you need to differentiate between "high" and "low" abundance of something
(typically a immune cell type) then you can compare survival between the two modes.

Later wishes is to add more filters based on the other columns in the data set.

The data set is very small, 3500 rows, 50 cols and will stay in this magnitude.
This would enable us to put the entire data set in RAM, even in the browser and
just iterate over it naively. There was some confusion if they were reluctant to
share their data set so easily. The data is not sensitive though and could be
considered public. Also they said if a researcher would email them and ask
for the data they would get it.

They have been working with their data in R and they were positive to send
us scripts they have been using to work with it.

They were keen on sharing a list of acronyms of cell and cancer types.
